- [Instructor] Spring Boot comes with some great features
to help with error handling.
But it is left to the developer to use those features
the three the exceptions and return meaningful responses
to the API client.
Let's fire up our application
and see how we are handling cases when somebody is looking
for a research that is not found.
What will happen when we try to retrieve a student
that does not exist.
So to do that, we need to call the following rest endpoint.
Get students ID.
Well, the default error representation
looks a little bit messy and misleading, right?
500 is not the right code to describe
that the requested resource is not found.
Each should be 404.
Internal server error does not provide
any meaningful information to the API consumers.
Exposing 500 internal server errors to the clients
is not a good practice at all.
So, to handle our errors properly
we need to customize
the default Spring Boot API error response
with a meaningful message indicating what went wrong
and a proper status code based on the context.
So let's create a new test for the case
when a student is missing.
We will use (indistinct) and Mockito
to write an integration test
one exception is thrown and verify that the proper
HTTP status is returned.
We will first create a new test method
in student control test.
Called getStudent_forMissingStudent_
status404.
Since this is a slice test
and we're using mock students service
we need to mock a behavior to draw an exception.
Recall from the service layer test exercise.
We have already created a custom student
not found exception,
so we need to mock (indistinct) it in a case
of a missing student.
We can do that with mockitos method will throw
students not found exception.
Now we just need to invoke students and point with any ID.
And this time assert that expect the status is not found.
If we run our test we will see
that instead of 404
we get, a student not found exception.
Let's explore two simple ways
we can implement custom mapping.
One, is by creating an exception handler.
We can define new method.
Void students not found exception
that accepts exception
as method argument
and annotate it with
exception handler
and response status
to map this exception to 404 not found status code.
Another way, instead of an exception handler
we could have just annotated our exception
with response status and status is not found
that would have worked too.
When we re-run our test,
we can see
that we got green.
Communicating meaningful responses in case of exceptions
is a crucial part when designing arrests API
and together with Spring Boot support
and more can we (indistinct)
we can easily verify and implement such behaviors.